Improve Heroku auto_explain docs (#241)
pganalyze/pganalyze-docs: explain/setup/heroku/03_review_settings.mdx

---
title: 'Step 3: Review auto_explain settings'
install_track_title: 'Automated EXPLAIN: Setup (Heroku Postgres)'
backlink_href: /docs/explain/setup
backlink_title: 'Automated EXPLAIN: Setup'
---

import PgSettingsRecommendations, { getAutoExplainSettingRecommendations } from "../../../components/PgSettingsRecommendations";

export const AutoExplainLink = ({version, children}) => {
  return (
    <a href={`https://www.postgresql.org/docs/${version ?? 'current'}/auto-explain.html`} target='_blank'>
      {children}
    </a>
  )
}

There are a number of `auto_explain` settings that allow you to configure which queries
will generate EXPLAIN plans. You can read the full Postgres documentation about
these <AutoExplainLink version={props.pgMajorVersion}>here</AutoExplainLink>.
The right configuration will depend on your server and workload,
but we've found the following is a good starting point:

<PgSettingsRecommendations recommendations={getAutoExplainSettingRecommendations(props.settings)} />

> Heroku offers to modify several of these settings, but not all of them. Notably,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heroku allows users to modify several of these settings, but not all of them. Notably,
```

you cannot update the `auto_explain.log_format` setting with Heroku Postgres
currently. Only JSON format is supported by pganalyze and as text format support

> is limited, you may see the errors on some EXPLAIN plans.

Author: This is Heroku specific sentence. Heroku currently doesn't offer modifying the `log_format` unfortunately, so we should be noting this (and this would be one downside of migrating to auto_explain, maybe). This sentence and below sentence is something I'd like additional eyes.

> currently. Only JSON format is supported by pganalyze and as text format support
> is limited, you may see the errors on some EXPLAIN plans.

Reviewer: I think "only JSON format is supported" may be a little strong. Text format is definitely a second-class citizen, but it mostly works, especially if you're not doing anything too weird in your queries. I've used the phrase "best-effort" to describe this in the past, so maybe

```suggestion
currently. Text-format auto_explain output is supported on a best-effort basis, so you may see errors for some EXPLAIN plans.
```

Author: Yeah agree with you that "only JSON format is supported" is a little strong (but we're actually using it in a tooltip 🙃). Given that other providers can change this config, I think we are fine leaving the tooltip as is, and update here as you suggested (I like the best-effort, as we are definitely doing the best effort there)

> You can check out [Heroku documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-postgres-settings#auto-explain)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check out the [Heroku documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-postgres-settings#auto-explain)
```
